# 2025 11th May

Attendees: Adam, Saloumeh, Mechii, Rachel, Daniel, Natalia, Marco

## Agenda
1. Reflect on last two weeks (what worked, what didn't)
1. Run through current tasks
1. Plan next tasks

## Relection
### Calls for resolving questions
Adam - Having a quick call with a few relevant mentors around a specific topic (e.g. react) was really helpful to unblock a lot of the major questions quickly. Definitely worth using this approach on modules/tasks you're on, if you need feedback/input from others (instead of relying only on async).

### Hard to find documentation
Marco - Final project template was new to him, but useful to know. Would help to have a clear list of all important docs/features of the curriculum (e.g. mentor guide, tools etc.). 

**Action:** Continue discussing/gathering feedback on this topic (e.g. [slack](https://hackyourfuture-cph.slack.com/archives/C070USK1UET/p1746530677744939), or a github issue) and tackle it after the restructure.

### Need clear project plan
Rachel - Deadlines, milestones with clear scope and dates. Things that could help:
* Iteration over "all in one" e.g. get existing content in now, later on create a milestone just for fixing language, removing school-like language etc.
* A deadline for "all major changes to be complete". Nothing new after, only fixes, tweaks.

Adam - We have a planning session with the staff team to update the project plan. Will update here after.

**Action:** (Adam) Write a task to finalise a clear project plan over the next week or two.

## Tasks update
### Databases
Saloumeh has feedback to share from the trainees. Marco to have a meeting with Magdalena and Saloumeh to plan more. Databases throws people in the deep (confusing) end quick - Web Arch 101 will help clear up some of this fundamental understanding of databases. Rachel will create an outline for that module today.

### Final project
We can start planning this now. Priority is foundation final projects. Adam to organise a meeting. Try find some mentors who've ran final projects previously to help. Natalia and Rachel volunteer. Daniel is interested, but not right now.

## Next steps/goals

**Top focus:** Complete the foundation course using restructured content as much as possible.

### Next session
2 weeks from now. We'll meet up in person at the offices. Saloumeh will be in aarhus :)
Anyone who can help Adam set up the cph office (buying food, setting up the room) please come early!
Saloumeh will send the invite this week.
