courses/Foundation/git/assignment.md, before:

# Homework

## Exercise 1

In this exercise you will get some practice submitting your homework by pushing it to Github and then creating a pull request.
You will be using this workflow every week to submit your homework, so it's important that you get comfortable with it.
You will also practice adding/committing files one by one.

You will use the your class homework repository on your computer to do the exercise. Here are the instructions:

1. Go to your class homework repo on your computer (you would have already cloned it in preparation or in class exercises)
2. Go to branch `main`
3. Pull the latest changes to make sure your local `main` is up to date
4. Create a branch for your homework, named `git-week1/yourname`, and move to that branch
5. Inside the folder `git/week1` create 3 new files:
   - a file named `my_favorite_food.txt`, inside the file write your favourite food recipe (you can just find a random recipe on google and paste it in the file ;)
   - a file named `my_second_favorite_food.txt`, inside the file write the recipe for your second favourite food
   - a file named `countries.txt`, where you list three countries that you have visited (this doesn't need to be true, you can just write the names of three random countries)
6. Add and commit the file `my_favorite_food.txt`;
7. Add and commit the file `my_second_favorite_food.txt`;
8. Add and commit the file `countries.txt`;
9. Push your changes into your class homework repository on Github.
10. Go to Github and create a pull request (PR) from the branch `git-week1/yourname` to `main`

## Exercise 2

You have hopefully received a review on your last week html-css homework.
If you submitted it later into the week, you might not have a review yet, in that case - wait. Be faster next time :).
If you submitted the homework too late, you are not entitled to a review, but you can still try and ask for one.

1. go to your local copy of the class homework repo, `main` branch;
2. update the `main` branch with the latest changes in the origin;
3. checkout to your `html-css` homework branch;
4. merge `main` into this branch;
5. make changes to your `html-css` homework as advised by mentors in your homework review and/or make any other changes or improvements;
6. commit and push the changes to the branch in origin;
7. close the `html-css` homework PR.

## Cheat sheet / tips

Commands that you will need:

- `git branch <branch-name>` - to create a new branch named `<branch-name>`
- `git checkout <branch-name>` - to move to a branch named `<branch-name>`
- `git add <file_name>` - tell git to start tracking a file and to update what will be committed
- `git commit -m "commit_message"` - commit (save) your changes
- `git push origin <branch-name>` - push (upload) your changes in your current branch to your github repository into the branch named `<branch-name>`.

**_Note_**
For the sake of consistency (and to avoid mistakes), make sure that when you push you do it to a branch with the same name as the branch where you are, e.g. if you are on a branch named `git-week1` then push to a branch named `git-week1` by typing `git push origin git-week1`.

When pulling, if you want to pull from a branch named, for instance `main`, make sure that you are in a branch with the same name (`main`) on your computer as well, and only then do `git pull origin <branch-name>`.

Other useful git commands:

- `git status` - remember, it is your best friend, it tells you what is the state of your repository and sometimes what you should do.
- `git branch` - this is your second best friend, it tells you in which branch you are (you can also see where you are when you do `git status`)
- `git log`
- `git log --oneline`
- `git pull origin <branch-name>` - pull (download) your changes from your github repository in the branch named `<branch-name>`, into your current local branch.

Command line commands that might be useful:

- `pwd`- print working directory, to know where you are
- `cd <folder_name>` - to go inside a folder named `<folder_name>`
- `cd ..`- to go to the parent folder of your current folder
- `mkdir <folder_name>` - to create a new folder
- `ls`- list all the folder contents
- `ls .*` - list all the folder contents, also invisible folders/files (e.g. the git folder)

Commit message:

Updated git lesson-plan, assignments, removed obsolete files

courses/Foundation/git/assignment.md, after:

# Assignment

Finish all exercises from the session, then do the following:

## Exercise 1

In this exercise you will get some practice submitting your assignment by pushing it to GitHub and then creating a pull request.
You will be using this workflow every week to submit your assignment, so it's important that you get comfortable with it.
You will also practice adding/committing files one by one.

You will use the Assignment repository created on the last session. Here are the instructions:

1. Go to your session assignment repository on your computer
2. Go to branch `main`
3. Pull the latest changes to make sure your local `main` is up to date
4. Create a branch for your assignment, named `git-week1/your-name`, and move to that branch
5. Inside the folder `git/week1` create 3 new files:
   - a file named `my-favourite-food.txt`, inside the file write your favourite dish recipe (you can just find a random recipe on Google and paste it in the file ;)
   - a file named `my-second-favourite-food.txt`, inside the file write the recipe for your second favourite dish
   - a file named `countries.txt`, where you list three countries that you have visited (this doesn't need to be true, you can just write the names of three random countries)
6. Add and commit the file `my-favourite-food.txt`
7. Add and commit the file `my-second-favourite-food.txt`
8. Add and commit the file `countries.txt`
9. Push your changes into your class assignment repository on GitHub
10. Go to GitHub and create a pull request (PR) from the branch `git-week1/your-name` to `main`

## Cheat sheet / tips

Commands that you will need:

- `git branch <branch-name>` - to create a new branch named `<branch-name>`
- `git checkout <branch-name>` - to move to a branch named `<branch-name>`
- `git add <file_name>` - tell git to start tracking a file and to update what will be committed
- `git add .` - tell git to add to staging for commit all modified files
- `git commit -m "commit_message"` - commit (save) your changes
- `git push origin <branch-name>` - push (upload) your changes in your current branch to your GitHub repository into the branch named `<branch-name>`.

**_Note_**
For the sake of consistency (and to avoid mistakes), make sure that when you push you do it to a branch with the same name as the branch where you are, e.g. if you are on a branch named `git-week1` then push to a branch named `git-week1` by typing `git push origin git-week1`.

When pulling, if you want to pull from a branch named, for instance `main`, make sure that you are in a branch with the same name (`main`) on your computer as well, and only then do `git pull origin <branch-name>`.

Other useful git commands:

- `git status` - remember, it is your best friend, it tells you what is the state of your repository and sometimes what you should do.
- `git branch` - this is your second best friend, it tells you in which branch you are (you can also see where you are when you do `git status`)
- `git log`
- `git log --oneline`
- `git pull origin <branch-name>` - pull (download) your changes from your GitHub repository in the branch named `<branch-name>`, into your current local branch.

Command line commands that might be useful:

- `pwd`- print working directory, to know where you are
- `cd <folder_name>` - to go inside a folder named `<folder_name>`
- `cd ..`- to go to the parent folder of your current folder
- `mkdir <folder_name>` - to create a new folder
- `ls`- list all the folder contents
- `ls .*` - list all the folder contents, also invisible folders/files (e.g. the git folder)
