legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md, before:

# Self study

<<<<<<<< HEAD:courses/Pre-Course/Self-Study/readme.md
This module lists the steps you have to complete **BEFORE** the Foundation course starts. <br>

You are going to be fully self-learning `HTML` and `CSS`, so it is very important and **mandatory** that you complete the steps before the first Sunday session at HackYourFuture. <br>
========
This section lists the steps you have to complete **BEFORE** the bootcamp starts.

You are going to be fully self-learning `HTML` and `CSS`, so it is very important and **mandatory** that you complete the steps before the first sunday session at HackYourFuture.
>>>>>>>> main:legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md

You will also get a little introduction to `Javascript`, so that you can be more comfortable jumping into it when the course starts.

## HTML and CSS

### freeCodeCamp certifications

The `freeCodeCamp` courses are a good way to learn and their certifications are widely recognized, therefore we use this platform to give you a good start with learning `Web Development` and having a way to showcase your learning.

<<<<<<<< HEAD:courses/Pre-Course/Self-Study/readme.md
### What you have completed already
========
### What you have done so far
>>>>>>>> main:legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md

There are 5 parts in the [Responsive Web Design certification](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/). Each part contains a few sections and a certification project at the end of each part.
You have already finished at least 2 sections from the first part as part of the application process:

- [Learn HTML by Building a Cat Photo App](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-html-by-building-a-cat-photo-app/)

- [Learn Basic CSS by Building a Cafe Menu](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-basic-css-by-building-a-cafe-menu/)

### What you have to do before the first Sunday session

You should finish the first part and the certification project that goes with it:

- [Learn CSS Colors by Building a Set of Colored Markers](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-css-colors-by-building-a-set-of-colored-markers)

- [Learn HTML Forms by Building a Registration Form](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-html-forms-by-building-a-registration-form)

- [Certification Project - Survey Form](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/build-a-survey-form-project/build-a-survey-form)

This will familiarise you with `CSS` colors and building `Forms` with `HTML` and `CSS`, which are both essential parts of basic Web Development knowledge.

You should also complete 2 more sections from the second part:

- [Learn the CSS Box Model by Building a Rothko Painting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-the-css-box-model-by-building-a-rothko-painting)
- [Learn CSS Flexbox by Building a Photo Gallery](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-css-flexbox-by-building-a-photo-gallery)

Learning the CSS Box Model and Flexbox will give you very good foundational knowledge to deal with any styling or layout challenge.

## JavaScript

Complete these steps in the freeCodeCamp [JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures certification](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/):

- [Comment Your JavaScript Code](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/comment-your-javascript-code)
- [Declare JavaScript Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-javascript-variables)
- [Storing Values with the Assignment Operator](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/storing-values-with-the-assignment-operator)
- [Assigning the Value of One Variable to Another](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/assigning-the-value-of-one-variable-to-another)
- [Initializing Variables with the Assignment Operator](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/initializing-variables-with-the-assignment-operator)
- [Declare String Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-string-variables)
- [Understanding Uninitialized Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/understanding-uninitialized-variables)
- [Understanding Case Sensitivity in Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/understanding-case-sensitivity-in-variables)
- [Explore Differences Between the var and let Keywords](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/explore-differences-between-the-var-and-let-keywords)
- [Declare a Read-Only Variable with the const Keyword](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-a-read-only-variable-with-the-const-keyword)
- [Add Two Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/add-two-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Subtract One Number from Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-number-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Multiply Two Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/multiply-two-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Divide One Number by Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-number-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Increment a Number with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/increment-a-number-with-javascript)
- [Decrement a Number with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/decrement-a-number-with-javascript)
- [Create Decimal Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/create-decimal-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Multiply Two Decimals with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/multiply-two-decimals-with-javascript)
- [Divide One Decimal by Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-decimal-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Finding a Remainder in JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/finding-a-remainder-in-javascript)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Addition](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-addition)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Subtraction](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-subtraction)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Multiplication](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-multiplication)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Division](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-division)

If you like the `freeCodeCamp` format, you should definitely continue beyond what we ask of you and attain the various relevant certifications - especially by finishing off the **Responsive Web Design** and **Javascript Algorithms and Data Structures** certifications!

<<<<<<<< HEAD:courses/Pre-Course/Self-Study/readme.md
## Submitting your preparation
========
### Submitting your preparation
>>>>>>>> main:legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md

Before the first Sunday session, you must have completed all the steps listed above. You then need to make your freeCodeCamp profile public - [Video here to show you how to do this](https://www.loom.com/share/019547eab49e4e198fd2d24f6cb27d3c) - and post a link to your profile in your team Slack channel. If you do not do this before the first Sunday session, you will not be able to continue with the course.

<<<<<<<< HEAD:courses/Pre-Course/Self-Study/readme.md
## FAQ
========
### What if?
>>>>>>>> main:legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md

- If you have completed all these parts already, just continue further with the certifications. You are here to learn after all and you are entering a journey of self-teaching!

- If you have not completed the steps listed above from the `Responsive Web Design` ceritification and the `JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures` certification by the time of the first Sunday session, you will not be able to continue with the course.

- Stuck or need help? Please use your team Slack channel to ask for help from your fellow trainees. Asking for help, explaining the problems you have, and sharing your own knowledge with your fellow trainees are all very important skills to succeed in HackYourFuture, so start practicing right now!

Commit message:

Fixed accidental merge conflicts after merging main in

legacy/html-and-css/Pre-course/README.md, after:

# Pre-course materials

This section lists the steps you have to complete **BEFORE** the bootcamp starts.

You are going to be fully self-learning `HTML` and `CSS`, so it is very important and **mandatory** that you complete the steps before the first sunday session at HackYourFuture.

You will also get a little introduction to `Javascript`, so that you can be more comfortable jumping into it when the course starts.

## HTML and CSS

### freeCodeCamp certifications

The `freeCodeCamp` courses are a good way to learn and their certifications are widely recognized, therefore we use this platform to give you a good start with learning `Web Development` and having a way to showcase your learning.

### What you have done so far

There are 5 parts in the [Responsive Web Design certification](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/). Each part contains a few sections and a certification project at the end of each part.
You have already finished at least 2 sections from the first part as part of the application assignment:

- [Learn HTML by Building a Cat Photo App](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-html-by-building-a-cat-photo-app/)

- [Learn Basic CSS by Building a Cafe Menu](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-basic-css-by-building-a-cafe-menu/)

### What you have to do before the first Sunday session

You should finish the first part and the certification project that goes with it:

- [Learn CSS Colors by Building a Set of Colored Markers](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-css-colors-by-building-a-set-of-colored-markers)

- [Learn HTML Forms by Building a Registration Form](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-html-forms-by-building-a-registration-form)

- [Certification Project - Survey Form](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/build-a-survey-form-project/build-a-survey-form)

This will familiarise you with `CSS` colors and building `Forms` with `HTML` and `CSS`, which are both essential parts of basic Web Development knowledge.

You should also complete 2 more sections from the second part:

- [Learn the CSS Box Model by Building a Rothko Painting](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-the-css-box-model-by-building-a-rothko-painting)
- [Learn CSS Flexbox by Building a Photo Gallery](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/learn-css-flexbox-by-building-a-photo-gallery)

Learning the CSS Box Model and Flexbox will give you very good foundational knowledge to deal with any styling or layout challenge.

## JavaScript

Complete these steps in the freeCodeCamp [JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures certification](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/):

- [Comment Your JavaScript Code](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/comment-your-javascript-code)
- [Declare JavaScript Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-javascript-variables)
- [Storing Values with the Assignment Operator](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/storing-values-with-the-assignment-operator)
- [Assigning the Value of One Variable to Another](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/assigning-the-value-of-one-variable-to-another)
- [Initializing Variables with the Assignment Operator](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/initializing-variables-with-the-assignment-operator)
- [Declare String Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-string-variables)
- [Understanding Uninitialized Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/understanding-uninitialized-variables)
- [Understanding Case Sensitivity in Variables](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/understanding-case-sensitivity-in-variables)
- [Explore Differences Between the var and let Keywords](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/explore-differences-between-the-var-and-let-keywords)
- [Declare a Read-Only Variable with the const Keyword](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/declare-a-read-only-variable-with-the-const-keyword)
- [Add Two Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/add-two-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Subtract One Number from Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-number-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Multiply Two Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/multiply-two-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Divide One Number by Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-number-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Increment a Number with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/increment-a-number-with-javascript)
- [Decrement a Number with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/decrement-a-number-with-javascript)
- [Create Decimal Numbers with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/create-decimal-numbers-with-javascript)
- [Multiply Two Decimals with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/multiply-two-decimals-with-javascript)
- [Divide One Decimal by Another with JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/divide-one-decimal-by-another-with-javascript)
- [Finding a Remainder in JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/finding-a-remainder-in-javascript)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Addition](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-addition)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Subtraction](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-subtraction)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Multiplication](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-multiplication)
- [Compound Assignment With Augmented Division](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/compound-assignment-with-augmented-division)

If you like the `freeCodeCamp` format, you should definitely continue beyond what we ask of you and attain the various relevant certifications - especially by finishing off the **Responsive Web Design** and **Javascript Algorithms and Data Structures** certifications!

### Submitting your preparation

Before the first Sunday session, you must have completed all the steps listed above. You then need to make your freeCodeCamp profile public - [Video here to show you how to do this](https://www.loom.com/share/019547eab49e4e198fd2d24f6cb27d3c) - and post a link to your profile in your class Slack channel. If you do not do this before the first Sunday session, you will not be able to continue with the course.

### What if?

- If you have completed all these parts already, just continue further with the certifications. You are here to learn after all and you are entering a journey of self-teaching!

- If you have not completed the steps listed above from the `Responsive Web Design` ceritification and the `JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures` certification by the time of the first Sunday session, you will not be able to continue with the course.

- Stuck or need help? Please use your class Slack channel to ask for help from your fellow students. Asking for help, explaining the problems you have, and sharing your own knowledge with your fellow students are all very important to succeed in HackYourFuture, so start practicing right now!
